docs: Restructure quick-start section of docs to separate clp-json from clp-text (#968)
y-scope/clp: docs/src/user-guide/quick-start/clp-text.md

Reviewer: Can you apply similar changes to those we made in clp-json.md?

Author: yep!

Reviewer: Some of the changes we made to clp-json.md haven't been applied to this file. Can you diff the two files and apply any corresponding changes?

Author: my bad, sorry! I think I caught all the changes on my latest commit.

# clp-text quick-start

This page will walk you through how to start CLP and use it to compress and search unstructured
text logs.

:::{caution}
If you're using a `clp-text` release, you should only compress unstructured text logs. `clp-text`

> is able to compress and search JSON logs as if it was unstructured text, but `clp-text` cannot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is able to compress and search JSON logs as if they were unstructured text, but `clp-text` cannot
```

query individual fields. This limitation will be addressed in a future version of CLP.
:::

---

## Starting CLP

To start CLP, run:

```bash
sbin/start-clp.sh
```

:::{note}
If CLP fails to start (e.g., due to a port conflict), try adjusting the settings in
`etc/clp-config.yml` and then run the start command again.
:::

---

## Compressing unstructured text logs

To compress some unstructured text logs, run:

```bash
sbin/compress.sh <path1> [<path2> ...]
```

`<path...>` are paths to unstructured text log files or directories containing such files.

The compression script will output the compression ratio of each dataset you compress, or you can
use the UI to view overall statistics.

Compressed logs will be stored in the directory specified by the `archive_output.storage.directory`
config option in `etc/clp-config.yml` (`archive_output.storage.directory` defaults to
`var/data/archives`).

### Sample logs

For some sample logs, check out the [open-source datasets](../resources-datasets).

---

## Searching unstructured text logs

You can search your compressed logs from CLP's [UI](#searching-from-the-ui) or the
[command line](#searching-from-the-command-line).

> Unstructured text log queries are written as plain text. You can use a couple of special
> characters to make these queries more versatile. `*` can be used as a placeholder for an unknown
> number of characters, and `?` can be used for a single character. For example, consider the logs in
> [Figure 1](#figure-1) and the query in [Figure 2](#figure-2).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In clp-text, queries are written as wildcard expressions. A wildcard expression is a plain text
query where:

* `*` matches zero or more characters
* `?` matches any single character

For example, consider the logs in [Figure 1](#figure-1) and the query in [Figure 2](#figure-2).
```

Like in `clp-json.md`, can you swap the content of the figures?

(figure-1)=
:::{card}

```text
1   abc
2   axbc
3   abxc
4   axxbxc
5   a b c
```

+++
**Figure 1**: A set of unstructured text log events.
:::

(figure-2)=
:::{card}

```bash
"a*b?c"
```

+++
**Figure 2**: An example query.

> :::

Reviewer: Can we use the logs we have in the flavor selection page? And perhaps a more realistic query.

The query in [Figure 2](#figure-2) will match with lines 3, 4, and 5 in [Figure 1](#figure-1), as
they are the only lines which contain the character `"a"` followed by any number (including zero)
of other characters, followed by `"b"`, followed by one other character, followed by `"c"`.

A complete reference for clp-text's query syntax is available on the
[text syntax reference page](../reference-text-search-syntax).

### Searching from the UI

> To search your compressed logs from CLP's UI, open [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000)
> in your browser (if you changed `webui.host` or `webui.port` in `etc/clp-config.yml`, use the new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To search your compressed logs from CLP's UI, open [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000) in
your browser (if you changed `webui.host` or `webui.port` in `etc/clp-config.yml`, use the new
```

values).

:::{image} clp-search-ui.png
:::

> The image above shows the search page after running a query. The numbered circles correspond to
> the following features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image above shows the search page after running a query. The numbered circles correspond to the
following features:
```

1. The search box is where you can enter your query.
2. The timeline shows the number of results across the time range of your query.
   * You can click and drag to zoom into a time range, or use the time range filter in (4).
3. The table displays the search results for your query.
4. Clicking the <i class="fa fa-bars"></i> icon reveals additional filters for your query.

>    * The time range filter allows you to specify the period of time that matching log events must
>      be in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The time range filter allows you to specify the period of time that matching log events must be
     in.
```

You can search your compressed logs from CLP's [UI](#searching-from-the-ui) or the
[command line](#searching-from-the-command-line).

In clp-text, queries are written as wildcard expressions. A wildcard expression is a plain text
query where:

* `*` matches zero or more characters
* `?` matches any single character

For example, consider the query in [Figure 1](#figure-1) and the logs in [Figure 2](#figure-2).

(figure-1)=
:::{card}

```bash
"INFO container_? Transitioned*ACQUIRED"
```

+++
**Figure 1**: An example query.
:::

(figure-2)=
:::{card}

```text
2015-03-23T15:50:17.926Z INFO container_1 Transitioned from ALLOCATED to ACQUIRED
2015-03-23T15:50:17.927Z ERROR Scheduler: Error trying to assign container token
java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: java.net.UnknownHostException: i-e5d112ea
    at org.apache.hadoop.security.buildTokenService(SecurityUtil.java:374)
    at org.apache.hadoop.ipc.Server$Handler.run(Server.java:2033)
Caused by: java.net.UnknownHostException: i-e5d112ea
    ... 17 more
```

+++
**Figure 2**: A set of unstructured text log events.
:::

The query in [Figure 1](#figure-1) will match with the first log message, as the `?` will match the

> character "1", and the `*` match the text " from ALLOCATED to ".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
character "1", and the `*` will match the text " from ALLOCATED to ".
```

Sorry, missed a word.

---

## Searching unstructured text logs

You can search your compressed logs from CLP's [UI](#searching-from-the-ui) or the
[command line](#searching-from-the-command-line).

In clp-text, queries are written as wildcard expressions. A wildcard expression is a plain text
query where:

* `*` matches zero or more characters
* `?` matches any single character

For example, consider the query in [Figure 1](#figure-1) and the logs in [Figure 2](#figure-2).

(figure-1)=
:::{card}

```bash
"INFO container_? Transitioned*ACQUIRED"
```

+++
**Figure 1**: An example query.
:::

(figure-2)=
:::{card}

```text
2015-03-23T15:50:17.926Z INFO container_1 Transitioned from ALLOCATED to ACQUIRED
2015-03-23T15:50:17.927Z ERROR Scheduler: Error trying to assign container token
java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: java.net.UnknownHostException: i-e5d112ea
    at org.apache.hadoop.security.buildTokenService(SecurityUtil.java:374)
    at org.apache.hadoop.ipc.Server$Handler.run(Server.java:2033)
Caused by: java.net.UnknownHostException: i-e5d112ea
    ... 17 more
```

+++
**Figure 2**: A set of unstructured text log events.
:::

> The query in [Figure 2](#figure-2) will match with the first log message, as the `?` will stand in
> for any one character (in this case, `1`), and the `*` will stand in for the characters
> ` from ALLOCATED to `.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query in [Figure 2](#figure-2) will match with the first log message, as the `?` will match the
character "1", and the `*` match the text " from ALLOCATED to ".
```

I'm using quotes rather than backticks since the spaces surrounding the text only get rendered if we use quotes.

A complete reference for clp-text's query syntax is available on the

> [text syntax reference page](../reference-text-search-syntax).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[syntax reference page](../reference-text-search-syntax).
```
